Amazon S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, and highly-scalable cloud
storage. Amazon S3 is easy-to-use object storage with a simple web service interface that you
can use to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web. Amazon S3 also
allows you to pay only for the storage you actually use, which eliminates the capacity
planning and capacity constraints associated with traditional storage.
Amazon S3 is one of first services introduced by AWS, and it serves as one of the
foundational web services—nearly any application running in AWS uses Amazon S3, either
directly or indirectly. Amazon S3 can be used alone or in conjunction with other AWS
services, and it offers a very high level of integration with many other AWS cloud services.
For example, Amazon S3 serves as the durable target storage for Amazon Kinesis and Amazon
Elastic MapReduce (Amazon EMR), it is used as the storage for Amazon Elastic Block Store
(Amazon EBS) and Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) snapshots, and it is
used as a data staging or loading storage mechanism for Amazon Redshift and Amazon
DynamoDB, among many other functions. Because Amazon S3 is so flexible, so highly
integrated, and so commonly used, it is important to understand this service in detail.
Common use cases for Amazon S3 storage include:
Backup and archive for on-premises or cloud data
Content, media, and software storage and distribution
Big data analytics
Static website hosting
Cloud-native mobile and Internet application hosting
Disaster recovery
To support these use cases and many more, Amazon S3 offers a range of storage classes
designed for various generic use cases: general purpose, infrequent access, and archive. To
help manage data through its lifecycle, Amazon S3 offers configurable lifecycle policies. By
using lifecycle policies, you can have your data automatically migrate to the most appropriate
storage class, without modifying your application code. In order to control who has access to
your data, Amazon S3 provides a rich set of permissions, access controls, and encryption
options.
Amazon Glacier is another cloud storage service related to Amazon S3, but optimized for data
archiving and long-term backup at extremely low cost. Amazon Glacier is suitable for “cold
data,” which is data that is rarely accessed and for which a retrieval time of three to five hours
is acceptable. Amazon Glacier can be used both as a storage class of Amazon S3 (see Storage
Classes and Object Lifecycle Management topics in the Amazon S3 Advanced Features
section), and as an independent archival storage service (see the Amazon Glacier section).
